Local deployment docs for local deployment with ADB (#667)
spatialos/gdk-for-unity: docs/content/mobile/android/local-deploy.md

# Connect to a local deployment

Before reading this document, make sure you are familiar with:

* [Setting up Android Support for the GDK]({{urlRoot}}/content/mobile/android/setup)
* [Ways to test your Android client]({{urlRoot}}/content/mobile/android/ways-to-test)

## Prepare your project to connect to a local deployment

> To connect your Android device to a local deployment, you need to prepare; follow the steps below to ensure any local deployment you launch via the Unity Editor is correctly set up.

Reviewer: `To connect your Android device to a local deployment, you need to prepare;` -> what do you need to prepare?

1. Navigate to **SpatialOS** > **GDK Tools configuration** to open the configuration window.
1. In the **Runtime IP for local deployment** field, enter your local machine's IP address. (You can find how to do this on the [Lifehacker website](https://lifehacker.com/5833108/how-to-find-your-local-and-external-ip-address).)
1. Select **Save** and close the window.

## Use Unity Remote

You need the Unity Remote app for this. See the [Unity documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/UnityRemote5.html) for details.

1. Enable USB debugging on your mobile device. See the [Android developer documentation](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/dev-options#enable) for guidance.
1. Connect the mobile device to your computer using a USB cable. You might get a pop-up window on the device asking you to allow USB debugging. Select **Yes**.
1. In the Unity Editor, open the project that you want to deploy and go to **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Editor** to bring up the **Editor Settings** window.
1. Open the Scene that starts both your [client-]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#client-worker) and [server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#server-worker).

> 1. In **Editor Settings** window's **Unity Remote** section, set the **Device** setting to **Any Android Device**.

Reviewer: Just noticed that you completely rewrote this sentence.
- a `the` is missing in `In **Editor Settings** ..`
- where is this Editor settings window?

> # Connecting to a local deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Connect to a local deployment
```

We decided to lose the gerunds (the "ing") for the titles in GDK docs. Just noticed this!

Before reading this document, make sure you are familiar with:

* [Setting up Android Support for the GDK]({{urlRoot}}/content/mobile/android/setup)
* [Ways to test your Android client]({{urlRoot}}/content/mobile/android/ways-to-test)

## Prepare your project to connect to a local deployment

To connect your Android device to a local deployment, follow these steps:

1. Open your project in the Unity Editor.
1. Navigate to **SpatialOS** > **GDK Tools configuration** to open the configuration window.
1. In the **Runtime IP for local deployment** field, enter your local machine's IP address. (You can find how to do this on the [Lifehacker website](https://lifehacker.com/5833108/how-to-find-your-local-and-external-ip-address).)
1. Select **Save**, and close the window.

> This ensures that any local deployment that is launched via the Unity Editor is set up correctly to connect to your Android device.

Author: I'm not sure what you suggestion is here. Do you want me to simply move this bit to be above "To connect your ...."?

> ## Connecting your Android device to a local deployment using Unity Remote

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Connect your Android device to a local deployment using Unity Remote
```
To make it not a gerund. :-)

You need the Unity Remote app for this. See the [Unity documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/UnityRemote5.html) for details.

1. Enable USB debugging on your mobile device. See the [Android developer documentation](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/dev-options#enable) for guidance.
1. Connect the mobile device to your computer using a USB cable. You might get a pop-up window on the device asking you to allow USB debugging. Select **Yes**.
1. Open the project that you want to deploy with the Unity Editor and go to **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Editor** to bring up the **Editor Settings** window.
1. Open the scene that starts both your [client-]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#client-worker) and [server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#server-worker).
1. In the **Unity Remote** section, select the drop-down menu beside the **Device** option and select **Any Android Device**.
1. On your mobile device, open the **Unity Remote** app. Make sure you allow it permissions for location and camera.

> 1. In the Unity Editor, Select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

Reviewer: just noticed that the "Select" should not be capitalized

Reviewer: and let's rephrase it to 

```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch** to start your local deployment.
```

    > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

> 1. In the Editor’s Game view, select **Play**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor’s Game view, select **Play**.
```

    > You can change the resolution of the Game view in your Unity Editor to make sure it does not appear stretched on your mobile device. Choose the resolution that’s identical to your mobile device to produce the best results.

> 1. You should now see your Unity Editor game view mirrored on your Android device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. You should now see your Unity Editor's Game view mirrored on your Android device.
```

> ## Connecting your Android emulator to a local deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Connect your Android Emulator to a local deployment
```

1. [Start your Android Emulator in Android Studio.](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/managing-avds)

    > Ensure you choose the same CPU architecture for your virtual machine as your development computer. If you don’t, you will get warning messages as mismatched CPU architecture affects performance.
1. [Set up your local deployment.](#setup-local-deployment-for-mobile-phone-connections)
1. [Build your server-workers.]({{urlRoot}}/content/build)

> 1. Start your local deployment from the Unity Editor's menu: **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch** to start your local deployment.
```

    > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **SpatialOS** > **Build for local**. Select your Android worker, and wait for the build to complete.

> 1. Now select **SpatialOS** > **Launch mobile client** > **Android Device**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, select **SpatialOS** > **Launch mobile client** > **Android Device** to start your Android client.
```

1. Play the game on the Emulator.

> ## Connecting your Android device to a local deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Connect your Android device to a local deployment
```

1. Enable USB debugging on your mobile device. See the [Android developer documentation](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/dev-options#enable) for guidance.
1. Make sure your computer and your mobile device are both connected to the same wireless network.
1. Connect the mobile device to your computer using a USB cable. You might get a pop-up window on the device asking you to allow USB debugging. Select **Yes**.
1. [Set up your local deployment](#setup-local-deployment-for-mobile-phone-connections)

> 1. [Build your server-workers.]({{urlRoot}}/content/build)

Reviewer: would swap these two to have the two local deployment steps together

> 1. [Set up your local deployment](#prepare-your-project-to-connect-to-a-local-deployment)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Set up your local deployment](#prepare-your-project-to-connect-to-a-local-deployment).
```

> 1. Start your local deployment from the Unity Editor's menu: **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch** to start your local deployment.
```

> 1. In the Unity Editor, select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch** to start your local deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch** to start your local deployment.
```

    > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **SpatialOS** > **Build for local**. Select your Android worker, and wait for the build to complete.

> 1. Now select **SpatialOS** > **Launch mobile client** > **Android Device**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, select **SpatialOS** > **Launch mobile client** > **Android Device** to start your Android client.
```

[//]: # (TODO - get rid of mobile_launch.json mention and explain it differently)

> # Prepare your project to connect to a local deployment

Reviewer: this section should be below the "Before reading this document..." and there should only be one header 1 as that describes the overall intent of the doc.

So try to structure it like this:

```
 # Connecting to a local deployment

Before reading...

## Prepare your project to connect

...

## Connect to a local deployment

After everything has been set up, you have now three options on how to connect.

## Connecting your Android device to a local deployment using Unity Remote

..

## Connecting your Android emulator to a local deployment

..

## Connecting your Android device to a local deployment

..

```

Need to check how that would look, it might even be better to have expandable tabs for the three options.

> # Prepare your project to connect to a local deployment

Reviewer: and get rid of the todo at the top as we don't mention mobile_launch.json anymore

To allow a mobile phone to connect to your local deployment, you will need to make the following configuration steps.

1. Have your project opened in the Unity Editor.
1. Open the configuration window through **SpatialOS** > **GDK Tools configuration**.
1. Fill your local machine's IP into the **Runtime IP for local deployment** field.
1. Click **Save**, and close the window.

From this point on, all local deployments launched through the editor will allow your mobile phone to connect to it.

> 

Reviewer: ```
# Prepare your project to connect to a local deployment

To connect your Android device to a local deployment, follow these steps:

 1. Open your project in the Unity Editor.
1. Navigate to **SpatialOS** > **GDK Tools configuration** to open the configuration window.
1. Fill your [local machine's IP](This needs a link on how to find it) into the **Runtime IP for local deployment** field.
1. Click **Save**, and close the window.

This ensures that any local deployment that is launched via the Unity Editor is set up correctly to connect to your Android device. 
```

always try to use active voice, Unity Editor is always capitalized.

Reviewer 2: <3

Reviewer 2: +1 on Jess's suggestions. A couple of additions...

1. In the **Runtime IP for local deployment** field, enter your local machine's IP address. (You can find how to do this on the [Lifehacker website](https://lifehacker.com/5833108/how-to-find-your-local-and-external-ip-address).)
...
These steps ensure that any local deployment you launch via the Unity Editor is set up to connect to your Android device correctly.

1. Open the scene that starts both your [client-]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#client-worker) and [server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#server-worker).
1. In the **Unity Remote** section, click on the drop-down menu beside the **Device** option and select **Any Android Device**.
1. On your mobile device, open the **Unity Remote** app. Make sure you allow it permissions for location and camera.
1. In the Unity Editor, Select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

    > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

1. In the Editor’s Game view, select **Play**.

    > You can change the resolution of the Game view in your Unity Editor to make sure it does not appear stretched on your mobile device. Choose the resolution that’s identical to your mobile device to produce the best results.

1. You should now see your Unity Editor game view mirrored on your Android device.

## Connecting your Android emulator to a local deployment

1. [Start your Android Emulator in Android Studio.](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/managing-avds)

>     > Ensure to choose the same CPU architecture for your virtual machine as your development computer. If you don’t, you will get warning messages as mis-matched CPU architecture affects performance.

Reviewer 2: Ensure to choose the same
```suggestion
    > Ensure you choose the same CPU architecture for your virtual machine as your development computer. If you don’t, you will get warning messages as mismatched CPU architecture affects performance.
```

> 1. [Setup your local deployment.](#setup-local-deployment-for-mobile-phone-connections)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Set up your local deployment.](#setup-local-deployment-for-mobile-phone-connections)
```
As set up is a verb here, it's two words. (Yes, I know: ENGLISH!!!)

1. [Build your server-workers.]({{urlRoot}}/content/build)

> 1. Start the local deployment from the Unity Editor though **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

Reviewer: "through" instead of "though"

"your local deployment" instead of "the local deployment" -> just makes it a bit clearer that this is happening on their side

Reviewer 2: <3 <3 <3

Reviewer 2: Have added this and another suggestion below. I would probably use "your Unity Editor" when writing but I note that most of this doc says "the Unity Editor". Either is fine but "your Unity Editor" sounds more comfortable as it's your version on your machine.

> 1. Start the local deployment from the Unity Editor though **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Start your local deployment from the Unity Editor's menu: **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.
```

    > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

> 1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **SpatialOS** > **Build for local**. Select your android worker, and wait for the build to complete.

Reviewer: Android needs to be capitalized, I believe

> 1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **SpatialOS** > **Build for local**. Select your android worker, and wait for the build to complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **SpatialOS** > **Build for local**. Select your Android worker, and wait for the build to complete.
```

Reviewer 2: There we are.

> 1. Click **SpatialOS** > **Launch mobile client** > **Android Device**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Still in the Unity Editor, from the menu, select **SpatialOS** > **Launch mobile client** > **Android Device**.
```

1. Play the game on the Emulator.

## Connecting your Android device to a local deployment

1. Enable USB debugging on your mobile device. See the [Android developer documentation](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/dev-options#enable) for guidance.
1. Make sure your computer and your mobile device are both connected to the same wireless network.
1. Connect the mobile device to your computer using a USB cable. You might get a pop-up window on the device asking you to allow USB debugging. Select **Yes**.

> 1. [Setup your local deployment](#setup-local-deployment-for-mobile-phone-connections)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Set up your local deployment](#setup-local-deployment-for-mobile-phone-connections)
```

1. [Build your server-workers.]({{urlRoot}}/content/build)

> 1. Start the local deployment from the Unity Editor though **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

Reviewer: through instead of though

    > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

> 1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **SpatialOS** > **Build for local**. Select your android worker, and wait for the build to complete.

Reviewer: "through" instead of "though"

"your local deployment" instead of "the local deployment" -> just makes it a bit clearer that this is happening on their side

> 1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **SpatialOS** > **Build for local**. Select your android worker, and wait for the build to complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **SpatialOS** > **Build for local**. Select your Android worker, and wait for the build to complete.
```

1. Click **SpatialOS** > **Launch mobile client** > **Android Device**.

> 1. Play the game on the device.

Reviewer: on your mobile device

Reviewer 2: Thumbs up.
